# Database Reordererererer

Some people want order in their Databases.  
Like, wanting the last 2 columns to be date_created and date_modified;  
But after a while, business requirements and lazyness creep in, 
and the dreams fade. And they're stuck with an ugly unordered DB.  
 
## Come the DB Reorderer.
 
Clone it the repo.  
Enter the directory  
Start the server

```bash
git clone git@github.com:jardayn/database_reorderer.git  
cd database_reorderer  
php -S localhost:8000
```
Go to <http://localhost:8000>

Enter your DB info: Acc/Pass/Host/DbName  
  
Enter the order of columns you want at the start and the end of your table.  


Click Submit. You will get a list of tables in the DB.  
If you don't want to reorder some tables - you can delete which one's you don't want reordered.  

Then click submit again.   
You'll get a list of queries that you need to run to satisfy your OCD


## And now it's time for the quirks and features

##### Will it reorder tables that are already in order?   
If everything is in order - it will ignore the table.  
If you want id,first_name,last_name to be the first columns, and the first 2 columns of the table ar id,first_name - it will only move the last_name column.
But, if the final columns are not in perfect order - it's gonna generate the query to adjust all of them. 

##### What if a column in the order doesn't exist?
The DBRO will ignore columns that do not exist on a table. So if you have only id,last_name but not first_name - it will reorder the table to have id,last_name in the front. 
Same behavior for the end of the table.  

##### I am doing this on a high bandwidth database, how do I avoid breaking everything with Read/Write locks?
Queries generated by the DBRO do not modify the DB, and I've added the "LOCK=NONE" to the queries, so you can avoid those pesky locks

##### Can it run queries on it's own?  
Not now. But that's coming in the near future

##### Does it work with PostgreSQL?
Not yet. Maybe one day.  

##### DBRO broke my production server, my company went bankrupt and my cat left me.  
Whoops.

##### How do I get you to fix a bug/implement a new thing into DBRO?
Make an issue or PR. I'll see what can be done.

##### Why are you not copying the SCHEMA into another table, reordering it, and and then moving the data into the new reordered table?
It's a possibility, but that'll seriously screw with large tables.
Cos it's gonna lock them up until the data is transferred from table A to table B. Will it be much faster? Yes. But I prefer not taking my DBs down.  
But one day, I'll add this as an option.


##### Is this really the most useless FAQ?
Yes.